RECIPES
BA's Best Chocolate Chip Cookies
What makes this chocolate chip cookie recipe BA’s Best? The addition of browned butter really puts these cookies over the top. It makes them crispy-edged, chewy-centered, yet still rooted in classic cookie flavor. Oh, and no mixer required, so there’s no excuse not to make them. This is part of BA's Best, a collection of our essential recipes.
APRIL 2019
INGREDIENTS
1½ cups (200 g) all-purpose flour (spooning into measuring cups, then leveling)
1¼ tsp. (4 g) Diamond Crystal or ¾ tsp. (4 g) Morton kosher salt
¾ tsp. (4 g) baking soda
¾ cup (1½ sticks; 169 g) unsalted butter, divided
1 cup (200 g) (packed) dark brown sugar
¼ cup (50 g) granulated sugar
1 large egg
2 large egg yolks
2 tsp. vanilla extract
6 oz. (170 g) bittersweet chocolate (60%–70% cacao), coarsely chopped, or semisweet chocolate chips
RECIPE PREPARATION
Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 375°. Whisk flour, salt, and baking soda in a small bowl; set aside.

Cook ½ cup (1 stick; 113 g) butter in a large saucepan over medium heat, swirling often and scraping bottom of pan with a heatproof rubber spatula, until butter foams, then browns, about 4 minutes. Transfer butter to a large heatproof bowl and let cool 1 minute. Cut remaining ¼ cup (½ stick; 56 g) butter into small pieces and add to brown butter (it should start to melt but not foam and sizzle, so test with one piece before adding the rest).

Once butter is melted, add both sugars and whisk, breaking up any clumps, until sugar is incorporated and no lumps remain. Add egg and egg yolks and whisk until sugar dissolves and mixture is smooth, about 30 seconds. Whisk in vanilla. Using rubber spatula, fold reserved dry ingredients into butter mixture just until no dry spots remain, then fold in chocolate (the dough will be soft but should hold its shape once scooped; if it slumps or oozes after being scooped, stir dough back together several times and let rest 5–10 minutes until scoops hold their shape as the flour hydrates).

Using a 1½-oz. scoop (3 Tbsp.), portion out 16 balls of dough and divide between 2 parchment-lined rimmed baking sheets. Bake cookies, rotating sheets if cookies are browning very unevenly (otherwise, just leave them alone), until deep golden brown and firm around the edges, 8–10 minutes. Let cool on baking sheets.

Do Ahead: Cookies can be made 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

REVIEWS
Best chocolate chip cookies I’ve ever made. Brown butter is a game changer!
LILLEGABBY HAWAII 09/16/20
Lov delicious. I have a question. My oven is Celsius. With conversion it works at 190. Can u please specify do I use the convection setting or convection with top and bottom grill or top and bottom grill with no convection for baking ur delicious cookies. Please help. Thank u
MAIS D EGYPT09/03/20
Easily the best chocolate chip cookies I have ever made! They are the perfect balance of sweet and salty, and I love how they are not overpowering like a lot of chocolate chip cookies can be. I've made them for friends and family multiple times now and each batch is always eaten very quickly! Even a coworker who doesn't like sweets loved them! Thank you for the wonderful recipe!
BELLE TROUTMAN GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN.09/01/20
These are the best chocolate chip cookies ever!!! I followed the recipe to the the letter and they turned out PERFECT!! I will never make chocolate chip cookies any other way. I don't understand some of the problems I read in other reviews. My dough was slightly soft, but as it stood, it did become a bit more solid. First time making them and I doubled the recipe. So glad I did because they won't last long!
SUZANNE F BREMERTON, WA 08/30/20
Honestly these are life changing - make them immediately.
ANONYMOUS BOSTON, MA 08/29/20
These are my go-to cookies for almost any event; whether it's to make a good first-impression at work, or for a simple snack at the end of the day. They're incredibly easy to make once you've browned butter correctly for the first time, and they store really well for up to a week for me (if they last that long, lol!). There is exactly one (1) alteration that I consistently make, and that's to use two whole eggs instead of one whole and two yolks. Not sure why, but they just hit different when I make them that way instead of by the recipe -- maybe it has to do with my mom's cookies only using whole eggs and no extra yolks, and 'm just wearing nostalgia glasses. Overall, though, these are probably my second favorite cookies ever, and definitely my favorite chocolate chip!
KAS89 NEW YORK 08/13/20
The BEST recipe, hands down. I’ve made this so many times and always recommend it to others. I now make the cookie batter and scoop dough and freeze the dough balls (Chris Morocco idea) and anytime the oven is needed, I make sure it’s always set for 375 degrees. I even made my dad a batch of frozen dough balls because he loves these cookies. They are great as is, but I add oats and coconut to mine and they are amazing. I’ve also used pastry flour and they’ve come out just a great. These cookies have NEVER disappointed.
ANONYMOUS BREMERTON, WA 08/10/20
This recipe is truly the best cookie recipe I have ever made, this came out perfect and I don't usually write reviews but this recipe was amazing I had to share my experience.
ANONYMOUS FOODEATER 08/05/20
mailed these out to a friend, and she loved them. they were super easy to make too
ANONYMOUS 08/01/20
Love, love, love these cookies! Recipe, and accompanying video were easy to follow. I did each step as detailed, though I only had salted butter, which I used. The cookies came out just as they were supposed to, just not quite as round as the photo. I will definitely make these again as my go-to chocolate chip cookies.
ANONYMOUS HOOVER, AL07/31/20
I'm hoping for opinions............. Do most people use convection for baking cookies? I have the option, but am never really sure if it's the best way to go.
LAURACOOPERMICHIGAN07/30/20
I am continuously trying new choco chip cookie recipes and this one is right up there in the top two! As others said, make sure to really brown that butter, 4 minutes is not enough time. Use quality brown sugar, something I found out the last go around. I used an off brand and it was very dark and gave the cookies a molasses flavor, also didn't seem to dissolve well. I learned from my other favorite recipe was to bang the pan down during the last couple minutes of baking and it'll give your cookies a wonderful crinkly look! I tried it with these and they turned out just gorgeous! Enjoy!
ANONYMOUS 07/30/20
“Make cookies, be happy!” - words time love by! Made these tonight, my second batch of homemade cookies and they are pure deliciousness. Just like Chris said in his video, this is something to refine over time- and this recipe is easily doable and can be tweaked slightly to each persons preference... will definitely make these again for my family!
ANONYMOUS SANTA BARBARA, CA 07/30/20
JUST WOW. I tried baking for the first time ever (I'm 32) and these cookies were phenomenal. The recipe is GOLD. Everyone who tasted them said they've never had better. So thanks BA, I don't even mind going up a size because I literally cannot stop eating them.
DS13 MUMBAI, INDIA 07/27/20
THESE ARE THE BEST COOKIES I'VE EVER MADE OR EATEN! A few notes of mine. Make sure you brown the butter really well, it's most of the flavor. They spread a lot for me the first time so I made a few adjustments. I add about 20 grams extra flour. I also always bake these from frozen. The first time I baked these on a sil-pat but I read that makes cookies spread so now I bake them on parchment. I love to keep a batch in the freezer at all times for my family to make whenever a craving hits
CEEJ19 CHARLOTTE, NC 07/22/20
I'm kind of a beginner when it comes to baking and I don't have a big oven or a lot of mixing bowls. I had tried the Tasty's best chocolate chip cookie recipe twice over the past year, but it's not super simple and I've heard a lot about Chris Morocco's taste, so I decided to try and make these now during the lockdown. I made these cookies for the first time 3 days. My second batch is in the oven right now. HOWEVER. I noticed a few things when I made it for the first time: a) The cookie is too damn sweet (250 g of sugar in all, Chris, seriously?) b) My cookie scoop is too big, and I did not measure out the cookies beforehand, so I ended up with 12 bigger cookies - and these bigger ones did not bake very well by 10 min. So, I ended up reducing the reducing of my oven to 175 deg C (instead of around 190 that Chris uses) and baking them longer, for around 16 - 18 min, c) My brown sugar was dark and molasses-y, so my cookie dough looked pretty dark, but the cookie was a nice brown and chewy so all's well that ends well, I guess, and d) There just weren't enough chocolate chips, Chris!! 170 g?. In today's cookie, I reduced the total amount of sugar to 200 g (I proportionately reduced the amounts of brown and white sugar) and increased the quantity of chocolate chips to 200 g. But all in all, this is a SUPER SIMPLE recipe - everyone should try it out - and feel free to make changes and make it your own, like I did!
ANONYMOUS INDIA 07/20/20
these cookies are *chefs kiss* i've made them in the US using cup measurements, and also for my boyfriend in the UK using weight measurements. i found that the latter made the best cookie -- however both were great! it's a bit crunchy on the outside and chewy on the inside. sweet and salty and not overly sickly. i've made these quite a few times and they're the best!
ANONYMOUS 07/20/20
These cookies are completely amazing and delicious! I have to control myself from eating the whole batch. Super easy, I would say the toughest part is browning the butter which isn’t that hard. Super good and totally recommend! I would double the batch if your family likes cookies!
STEELESE WISCONSIN 07/17/20
Not a baker, but hell, I'll do anything for a solid chocolate chip cookie. These, however, are not solid. They're phenomenal. The cookies have this salty, malty savory-ness than I haven't tasted in many others (of course, those other cookies are now forever ruined for me. Thanks, Chris). You don't need any other cookie recipe in your life: this one is pretty simple, but appeased all the polarized cookie lovers in my household. Word to the wise: chill your dough before you bake. I didn't, and I ended up with a delicious, albeit amorphous, sheet of a single, giant super-cookie. Which, ya know, isn't the worst thing in the world.
WKNDCHEF VENTURA, CA  07/17/20
DELISH! I used light brown sugar and refrigerated dough for several hours prior to baking. Next time I will try a slightly lower oven temperature than 375-- the edges of my cookies got dark and middles were a bit too pooling/undone for me. I used them to make ice cream sandwiches!
EASTON, PA07/10/20
Made my first batch of cookies (ever) with this recipe in March and it was perfection. Absolutely love the taste and texture. I have made this recipe 6 times since and has been perfect every single time. I always weigh the ingredients and follow the recipe without any changes (no leaving dough longer in fridge etc) and I have never had any spreading issues.
DLOCK OXFORD, UK 07/07/20
Made my first batch of cookies (ever) with this recipe in March and it was perfection. Absolutely love the taste and texture. I have made this recipe 6 times since and has been perfect every single time. I always weigh the ingredients and follow the recipe without any chances (no leaving dough longer in fridge etc) and I have never had any spreading issues.
DLOCK OXFORD, UK 07/07/20
When I first made this recipe the cookies spread waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay too much like paperthin. And they were really greasy. I realized what my mistake was and that is that you need to let the brown butter cool for a long time after adding in the room temp butter it needs to chill in the fridge until it is no longer warm. If it is warm, your cookies have the potential to be sub-par. And people please use grams they are consistent and better than the trash crap called volume measuring. And im from America!
JGARCIA HARRISONBURG, VIRGINIA, UNITED STATES07/07/20
I love the recipe!! but for anyone that doesn't like an over sweet cookie i recommend removing abt 10g of each sugar. And for additional flavor i love to add approx 1tsp of coffee (the kind for coffee machines)
ANONYMOUS FRANCE 07/07/20
After you finish making the recipe, but BEFORE baking, put it in the fridge! This helps with spread issues. Also, look up “pan banging” in case your cookies rise up too much. This helps give them a sexy ripple effect :0
REGINAREX6390NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA 07/04/20