Why are people writing short articles?
Dorin Stefan
Jun 28, 2018 · 3 min read
I’m not talking about everyone, of course. There are still a lot of people out there who write long and very interesting articles. But if you think about it, most of them already have a following, and their work is seen by a lot of readers.
However, when you look at someone who doesn’t have a lot of followers, who works on other things and who doesn’t have the time to write a lot, then is it really worth spending entire hours doing research, thinking about how everything should look like, writing a huge article, then publishing it and realizing that nobody will see it?
I don’t think so, and I believe that this is one of the main reasons a lot of people don’t really write long articles any more. The fact that readers enjoy short articles is another reason, of course, but knowing that you can write a huge and amazing article just to be the only one to see it, well, I understand why this would demotivate any person.
And the worst thing is that I don’t think there is a solution to this “problem”. I don’t think there’s something you can do to suddenly increase the amount of views and reads you get on your work. I think that the only thing you can do is to simply write and grow.
Then, when you’ll have enough followers, when enough people will read your work and when everything you publish gets dozens or even hundreds of views, I think only then you can actually start publishing long articles and get the response you desire. Only then your hard work will be seen by a lot of people.
This doesn’t mean you should only focus on writing short articles. You can do whatever you want. If you feel like you can write a lot, if you feel like you have the time and that you don’t really care about how many people see your work, then go ahead and write the things you want.
Everyone is free to create the type of content they desire, and I believe that if you can write long articles, then by all means you should do it. As long as you’re able to approach interesting subjects and share a lot of experiences and stories with people, then do that. I’m sure that in the future you’ll get all the attention you deserve.
However, I can’t stop thinking about all those people who spend hours and hours writing something amazing just to witness their work being ignored and, in time, forgotten, somewhere on the website, in a place where no one looks any more.
What do you think about this? Do you think that those who write fairly short articles and building their following before working on more complex projects are approaching this situation the right way, or do you think that everyone should do their best to create amazing work, no matter how many people see it?
I’m curious to see how other people look at this situation and how they act depending on how much attention their work gets. Do you feel motivated to write a lot even when you don’t receive any views or reads, or do you focus on different things and post from time to time, hoping to get a following at some point?